Seamless consists of a high-level API, a graph format, and a low-level translator-evaluator (core).
Only the graph formal, being universal, will have a formal specification. 
The other two are informal APIs tied to (for now) the Python language. Future alternative implementations
of Seamless may replace one or both APIs.

The workflow of Seamless can be decoupled as follows:

1. A graph is constructed using the high-level API (seamless.highlevel).
   This graph consists of the node topology + cell checksums.
   Topology can be translated while checksums are missing.
   This makes that the graph can describe: 
   - A protocol/workflow, if code input checksums are present, but not data input checksums.
   - Or: a computation, if all input checksums but not result checksums are present
   - Or: a result, if all checksums have been filled in ("colored graph")
   These makes Seamless graphs strongly interoperable. 
   See "Interoperability.pdf" for more details.

   Currently, the best graph construction front-ends are IPython and Jupyter to construct the topology locally
   (i.e. server-side, i.e. the same place as they will be evaluated).
   An future alternative would be Pyodide, leading to in-browser topology construction followed by
    in-browser evaluation (CPython => wasm JS).
  Note that Seamless graph construction can be decoupled from evaluation (see below)

2. The mid-level translator (seamless.midlevel) translates a Seamless graph into a low-level seamless context.
   The current low-level implementation in Python will be the only one for the foreseeable future.
   However, the entire translator-evaluator will wrapped into Seamless network services that accept graphs.
   These services have various levels of interactivity, but a semi-interactive model (fixed topology, interactive values)
   is the most relevant for decoupling.
   The front-ends described in 1. could be coupled to a Seamless service. In this way, the front-end could move to
   the client, and also away from Python.

Future:
   A future development would be to port the high-level API to JS, or make a different API around the graph format.
    The graph format will be formalized in a future version of Seamless.
    As it is only graph evaluation, this is not too difficult.
    Iodide would be a viable front-end for that.

3. Evaluation: This is done using a TaskManager using asyncio coroutines.
   Note that Seamless can be configured to disable local evalation,
   and instead send all tasks to remote Seamless instances, over the network.
   The latter can be configured using the communion server/client.
   This means that Seamless can be configured as a job slave, or a
   low-footprint work coordinator/aggregator.

4. Back-end: The edit and display of cell values.
   This part focuses on the editing and display of *values*, rather than *topology*.
   A comprehensive solution that also integrates with the front-end would be (Py)Qt.
   Unfortunately, Qt is a dead technology. Nowadays, editing is done using text editors or IDEs for text, and the
   browser for everything else. Seamless will move away from Qt. 
   Editing is now done using HTML + JS cells, that are served using .share().
   Cells are edited using the Seamless JS client library, again using the share server to provide a REST API.
   HTML auto-generating libraries will be added in the future.

  Alternative editing/visualization facilities are provided by cell.traitlet() and cell.output_widget(), 
  which are to be used with Jupyter visualization 
  (Jupyter notebooks can become dashboards when most of the cells are hidden)
  
  On top of this, Seamless supports polling observers, which is primarily for
  communication *between* Seamless graphs (e.g. a secondary graph to analyze
  the status and error messages of the first). 

  In addition, there is Observable Notebook.
  See "observable.txt" for an in-depth discussion of Seamless [vs/in combination with] Observable Notebook.

  Finally: an alternative for Observable would be Carbide, a lens-based framework.
  As far as I can see, you could hook up a Seamless service via Vue or React in a similar way.
